# Image Classifier

## A scaled down version of an image classifier that uses Convolutional Neural Networks to classify any images any number of classes. 

## Overview
 
This project is to serve as an introduction to CNNS and thier capabilities. The main classifer is a binary classifer which can classify two classes at a time. To classify more than two classes you will need to just uncomment a few lines in the jupyter notebook. As for the dataset, I have downloaded images using an extension called "Download All Images" (https://download-all-images.mobilefirst.me).

---

## Conuvoluational Neural Network 
A Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) is a type of deep learning architecture specifically designed for processing data with a grid-like topology, such as images. It leverages the concept of convolution, a mathematical operation that involves sliding a filter (or kernel) over the input data to extract local features. Key characteristics of a CNN include:

 * Convolutional Layers: These layers are the core of CNNs. They use small filters (kernels) to scan the input image, extracting local features such as edges, corners, and textures. This approach allows CNNs to capture spatial relationships between pixels, which is crucial for understanding visual information.   
* Pooling Layers: These layers downsample the feature maps generated by convolutional layers, reducing their spatial dimensions while preserving the most important information. This helps to:   
  - Reduce computational cost: By decreasing the number of parameters, pooling layers make the network more efficient.   
  - Improve invariance to small translations and distortions: Pooling makes the network less sensitive to slight shifts or rotations of objects in the image.   

* Parameter Sharing: CNNs share weights (parameters) across different locations in the input image. This means that the same filter is applied repeatedly to different parts of the image, significantly reducing the number of parameters and improving generalization.   

* Hierarchical Feature Learning: CNNs learn a hierarchy of features, starting with simple low-level features (edges) and gradually building up to more complex high-level features (objects).This hierarchical representation allows CNNs to capture intricate patterns and relationships within images.   


##  

The jupyter notebook is divided into ten subparts. It starts off by importing all the necessary libraries.
```python
def greet(name):
    print("Hello, " + name + "!")
```
## Usage Instructions 

### 1.**Setup**
1. Search for any images in your browser and click on the
2. It will automatically download all images in a zip file and save it on your system. In this case I downloaded pictures of cats and dogs and uploaded them onto the colab workspace.
3. This will work for any images.


### 2.**Testing**
- **Gesture Calibration**: The system calibrates gesture thresholds at startup. Follow the instructions on the console.
- **Key Gestures**:
  - **Thumb + Index Finger Pinch**: Adjusts volume.
  - **Thumb + Middle Finger Pinch**: Toggles play/pause.
### 3.**Evaluate**

## Prerequisites
I recommend using the latest versions of the following libraries:
* Tensorflow
* Numpy
* Matplotlib
* Keras (included with tensorflow)
* Opencv
* Imghdr
